---
layout: inner
title: 'Setting and Installation of the 64-bit JDK 8 and JRE 8 on Linux Platforms and Eclipse IDE'
date: 2017-02-05 00:57:48
categories: Development Environment
tags: Java IDE
lead_text: 'If you wanna go fast go alone , if you want to go further go with a team.'
---

This is based on the official ORACLE Java Documentation.Java Platform, Standard Edition Installation Guide

<h1 align="center">
	<br>
  This procedure installs the Java Development Kit (JDK 8) and Java Runtime Environment (JRE) for 64-bit Linux, using an archive binary file (.tar.gz).
	<br>
	<br>
	<br>
</h1>

Link for JDK 8 : [JDK 8 Installation](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html)

Link for JRE 8 : [JRE 8 Installation](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jre8-downloads-2133155.html)

<p class="center">
<snap>First we will install JDK 8  look for (I am installing 64 bit , make sure your system is running 64bit or 32bit)
</snap>
</p>

    jdk-8uversion-linux-x64.tar.gz

1.Download the file.

Before the file can be downloaded, you must accept the license agreement. The archive binary can be installed by anyone (not only root users), in any location that you can write to. However, only the root user can install the JDK into the system location.

2.Change directory to the location where you would like the JDK to be installed, then move the .tar.gz archive binary to the current directory.

3.Unpack the tarball and install the JDK.

    % tar zxvf jdk-8uversion-linux-x64.tar.gz

The Java Development Kit files are installed in a directory called jdk1.8.0_version in the current directory.

4.Delete the .tar.gz file if you want to save disk space.

<p class="center">
<snap>
Second we will install JRE 8 it is the same procedure:These instructions use the following file (again make sure you are running either 64bit or 32bit)
</snap>
</p>

    jre-8uversion-linux-x64.tar.gz

1.Download the file.

Before the file can be downloaded, you must accept the license agreement. The archive binary can be installed by anyone (not only root users), in any location that you can write to. However, only the root user can install the JDK into the system location.

2.Change directory to the location where you would like the JDK to be installed, then move the .tar.gz archive binary to the current directory.

3.Unpack the tarball and install the JRE.

    % tar zxvf jre-8uversion-linux-x64.tar.gz

The Java Development Kit files are installed in a directory called jdk1.8.0_version in the current directory.

4.Delete the .tar.gz file if you want to save disk space.

<p class="center">
<b>Installing Eclipse IDE for Java Developers</b>
</p>

1.Download Latest Eclipse for Java Linux:

Link for the installation : [Eclipse IDE for Java Developers](https://eclipse.org/downloads/packages/eclipse-ide-java-developers/neon2)

2.Double-Click on Archive and Extract Eclipse into /tmp

3.Open Terminal Window

4.Relocating Eclipse

    sudo su
    # If Got “User is Not in Sudoers file” then Look: Solution #
    chown -R root:root /tmp/eclipse && mv /tmp/eclipse /opt/

5.Starting Eclipse from Terminal

Making a Symlink

    ln -s /opt/eclipse/eclipse /usr/local/bin/eclipse

After you can Start Eclipse JSE from Terminal simply with:

    eclipse


Happy Coding!
